EU AI ACT - KEY EXCERPTS
Official Regulation (EU) 2024/1689 of the European Parliament and of the Council
Laying down harmonised rules on artificial intelligence (Artificial Intelligence Act)

=== TITLE I - GENERAL PROVISIONS ===

Article 1 - Subject matter
This Regulation lays down harmonised rules for the placing on the market, the putting into service, and the use of artificial intelligence systems (AI systems) in the Union. It also lays down prohibitions of certain AI practices, specific requirements for high-risk AI systems and obligations for operators of such systems, as well as harmonised transparency rules for certain AI systems.

Article 2 - Scope
1. This Regulation applies to providers placing on the market or putting into service AI systems in the Union, irrespective of whether those providers are established within the Union or in a third country.
2. This Regulation also applies to deployers of AI systems that have their place of establishment, or are located, within the Union.

Article 3 - Definitions
(1) 'AI system' means a machine-based system that is designed to operate with varying levels of autonomy and that may exhibit adaptiveness after deployment and that, for explicit or implicit objectives, infers, from the input it receives, how to generate outputs such as predictions, content, recommendations, or decisions that can influence physical or virtual environments.

=== TITLE II - PROHIBITED AI PRACTICES ===

Article 5 - Prohibited AI practices
1. The following AI practices shall be prohibited:
(a) the placing on the market, the putting into service, or the use of an AI system that deploys subliminal techniques beyond a person's consciousness or purposefully manipulative or deceptive techniques, with the objective or the effect of materially distorting the behaviour of a person or a group of persons by appreciably impairing their ability to make an informed decision, thereby causing that person or a group of persons to take a decision that they would not have otherwise taken, in a manner that causes or is reasonably likely to cause that person, another person or group of persons significant harm;
(b) the placing on the market, the putting into service, or the use of an AI system that exploits any of the vulnerabilities of a person or a specific group of persons due to their age, disability or a specific social or economic situation, with the objective, or the effect, of materially distorting the behaviour of that person or a person belonging to that group in a manner that causes or is reasonably likely to cause that person or another person significant harm;
(c) the placing on the market, the putting into service, or the use of AI systems for the evaluation or classification of natural persons or groups of natural persons over a certain period of time based on their social behaviour or known, inferred or predicted personal or personality characteristics, with the social score leading to either or both of the following: (i) detrimental or unfavourable treatment of certain natural persons or groups of natural persons in social contexts that are unrelated to the contexts in which the data was originally generated or collected; (ii) detrimental or unfavourable treatment of certain natural persons or groups of natural persons that is unjustified or disproportionate to their social behaviour or its gravity;
(d) the placing on the market, the putting into service, or the use of an AI system for making risk assessments of natural persons in order to assess or predict the risk of a natural person committing a criminal offence, based solely on the profiling of a natural person or on assessing their personality traits and characteristics; this prohibition shall not apply to AI systems used to support the human assessment of the involvement of a person in a criminal activity, which is already based on objective and verifiable facts directly linked to a criminal activity;
(e) the placing on the market, the putting into service, or the use of AI systems that create or expand facial recognition databases through the untargeted scraping of facial images from the internet or CCTV footage;
(f) the placing on the market, the putting into service, or the use of AI systems to infer emotions of a natural person in the areas of workplace and education institutions, except where the use of the AI system is intended to be put in place or into the market for medical or safety reasons;
(g) the placing on the market, the putting into service, or the use of biometric categorisation systems that categorise individually natural persons based on their biometric data to deduce or infer their race, political opinions, trade union membership, religious or philosophical beliefs, sex life or sexual orientation; this prohibition does not cover any labelling or filtering of lawfully acquired biometric datasets, such as images, based on biometric data or categorizing of biometric data in the area of law enforcement;
(h) the use of 'real-time' remote biometric identification systems in publicly accessible spaces for the purposes of law enforcement, unless and in as far as such use is strictly necessary for one of the following objectives: (i) the targeted search for specific victims of abduction, trafficking in human beings or sexual exploitation of human beings, as well as the search for missing persons; (ii) the prevention of a specific, substantial and imminent threat to the life or physical safety of natural persons or a genuine and present or genuine and foreseeable threat of a terrorist attack; (iii) the localisation or identification of a person suspected of having committed a criminal offence.

=== TITLE III - HIGH-RISK AI SYSTEMS ===

Article 6 - Classification rules for high-risk AI systems
1. Irrespective of whether an AI system is placed on the market or put into service independently of products referred to in points (a) and (b), that AI system shall be considered to be high-risk where both of the following conditions are fulfilled:
(a) the AI system is intended to be used as a safety component of a product, or the AI system is itself a product, covered by the Union harmonisation legislation listed in Annex I;
(b) the product whose safety component pursuant to point (a) is the AI system, or the AI system itself as a product, is required to undergo a third-party conformity assessment.
2. In addition to the high-risk AI systems referred to in paragraph 1, AI systems referred to in Annex III shall be considered to be high-risk.

Article 9 - Risk management system
1. A risk management system shall be established, implemented, documented and maintained in relation to high-risk AI systems.
2. The risk management system shall be understood as a continuous iterative process planned and run throughout the entire lifecycle of a high-risk AI system, requiring regular systematic updating.

Article 10 - Data and data governance
1. High-risk AI systems which make use of techniques involving the training of AI models with data shall be developed on the basis of training, validation and testing data sets that meet the quality criteria referred to in paragraphs 2 to 5.
2. Training, validation and testing data sets shall be subject to data governance and management practices appropriate for the intended purpose of the AI system. Those practices shall concern in particular: (a) the relevant design choices; (b) data collection processes and the origin of data; (c) the relevant data preparation processing operations; (d) the formulation of assumptions; (e) an assessment of the availability, quantity and suitability of the data sets that are needed; (f) examination in view of possible biases that are likely to affect the health and safety of persons, have a negative impact on fundamental rights or lead to discrimination.

Article 11 - Technical documentation
1. The technical documentation of a high-risk AI system shall be drawn up before that system is placed on the market or put into service and shall be kept up to date.

Article 13 - Transparency and provision of information to deployers
1. High-risk AI systems shall be designed and developed in such a way as to ensure that their operation is sufficiently transparent to enable deployers to interpret a system's output and use it appropriately.

Article 14 - Human oversight
1. High-risk AI systems shall be designed and developed in such a way, including with appropriate human-machine interface tools, that they can be effectively overseen by natural persons during the period in which they are in use.
2. Human oversight shall aim to prevent or minimise risks to health, safety or fundamental rights that may emerge when a high-risk AI system is used in accordance with its intended purpose or under conditions of reasonably foreseeable misuse.

Article 15 - Accuracy, robustness and cybersecurity
1. High-risk AI systems shall be designed and developed in such a way that they achieve an appropriate level of accuracy, robustness, and cybersecurity, and that they perform consistently in those respects throughout their lifecycle.

=== ANNEX III - HIGH-RISK AI SYSTEMS (Article 6(2)) ===

1. Biometrics: AI systems intended to be used for the 'real-time' and 'post' remote biometric identification of natural persons.
2. Critical infrastructure: AI systems intended to be used as safety components in the management and operation of critical digital infrastructure, road traffic, or in the supply of water, gas, heating or electricity.
3. Education and vocational training: AI systems intended to be used to determine access to or admission to educational and vocational training institutions; to evaluate learning outcomes; to assess the appropriate level of education for an individual; to monitor and detect prohibited behaviour of students during tests.
4. Employment, workers management and access to self-employment: AI systems intended to be used for the recruitment or selection of natural persons, for making decisions affecting terms of work-related relationships, promotion or termination of work-related contractual relationships, for task allocation based on individual behaviour or personal traits or characteristics, or for monitoring and evaluating the performance and behaviour of persons in such relationships.
5. Access to and enjoyment of essential private services and essential public services and benefits: AI systems intended to be used by public authorities to evaluate the eligibility of natural persons for essential public assistance benefits and services; AI systems intended to be used to evaluate the creditworthiness of natural persons or establish their credit score; AI systems intended to be used for risk assessment and pricing in relation to natural persons in the case of life and health insurance; AI systems intended to be used to evaluate and classify emergency calls by natural persons or to dispatch or establish priority in the dispatching of emergency first response services.
6. Law enforcement: AI systems intended to be used by or on behalf of law enforcement authorities for making individual risk assessments of natural persons; as polygraphs and similar tools; to evaluate the reliability of evidence in the course of investigation or prosecution of criminal offences; for predicting the occurrence or reoccurrence of an actual or potential criminal offence based on profiling of natural persons.
7. Migration, asylum and border control management: AI systems intended to be used by competent public authorities for examining applications for asylum, visa or residence permits; for assessing security risks posed by natural persons who enter the territory of a Member State; to assist competent public authorities for the examination of applications for asylum, visa and residence permits.
8. Administration of justice and democratic processes: AI systems intended to be used by a judicial authority or on their behalf to assist in researching and interpreting facts and the law and in applying the law to a concrete set of facts; to be used for influencing the outcome of an election or referendum or the voting behaviour of natural persons.
