GENERAL DATA PROTECTION REGULATION (GDPR)
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council
on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data

=== CHAPTER II - PRINCIPLES ===

Article 5 - Principles relating to processing of personal data
1. Personal data shall be:
(a) processed lawfully, fairly and in a transparent manner in relation to the data subject ('lawfulness, fairness and transparency');
(b) collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and not further processed in a manner that is incompatible with those purposes ('purpose limitation');
(c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed ('data minimisation');
(d) accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date ('accuracy');
(e) kept in a form which permits identification of data subjects for no longer than is necessary ('storage limitation');
(f) processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal data ('integrity and confidentiality').
2. The controller shall be responsible for, and be able to demonstrate compliance with, paragraph 1 ('accountability').

Article 6 - Lawfulness of processing
1. Processing shall be lawful only if and to the extent that at least one of the following applies:
(a) the data subject has given consent to the processing of his or her personal data for one or more specific purposes;
(b) processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is party;
(c) processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the controller is subject;
(d) processing is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of another natural person;
(e) processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest;
(f) processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the controller or by a third party.

Article 7 - Conditions for consent
1. Where processing is based on consent, the controller shall be able to demonstrate that the data subject has consented to processing of his or her personal data.
2. If the data subject's consent is given in the context of a written declaration which also concerns other matters, the request for consent shall be presented in a manner which is clearly distinguishable from the other matters.
3. The data subject shall have the right to withdraw his or her consent at any time.

Article 9 - Processing of special categories of personal data
1. Processing of personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, or trade union membership, and the processing of genetic data, biometric data for the purpose of uniquely identifying a natural person, data concerning health or data concerning a natural person's sex life or sexual orientation shall be prohibited.
2. Paragraph 1 shall not apply if one of the following applies:
(a) the data subject has given explicit consent;
(b) processing is necessary for the purposes of carrying out the obligations and exercising specific rights of the controller or of the data subject in the field of employment and social security and social protection law;
(c) processing is necessary to protect the vital interests of the data subject;
(d) processing is carried out by a foundation, association or any other not-for-profit body with a political, philosophical, religious or trade union aim;
(e) processing relates to personal data which are manifestly made public by the data subject.

=== CHAPTER III - RIGHTS OF THE DATA SUBJECT ===

Article 13 - Information to be provided where personal data are collected from the data subject
1. Where personal data relating to a data subject are collected from the data subject, the controller shall, at the time when personal data are obtained, provide the data subject with all of the following information:
(a) the identity and the contact details of the controller;
(b) the contact details of the data protection officer;
(c) the purposes of the processing for which the personal data are intended as well as the legal basis for the processing;
(d) where the processing is based on legitimate interests, the legitimate interests pursued;
(e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data;
(f) where applicable, the fact that the controller intends to transfer personal data to a third country.

Article 14 - Information to be provided where personal data have not been obtained from the data subject
1. Where personal data have not been obtained from the data subject, the controller shall provide the data subject with the following information:
(a) the identity and the contact details of the controller;
(b) the contact details of the data protection officer;
(c) the purposes of the processing for which the personal data are intended as well as the legal basis for the processing;
(d) the categories of personal data concerned;
(e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data.

Article 15 - Right of access by the data subject
1. The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the controller confirmation as to whether or not personal data concerning him or her are being processed, and, where that is the case, access to the personal data.

=== AUTOMATED DECISION-MAKING ===

Article 22 - Automated individual decision-making, including profiling
1. The data subject shall have the right not to be subject to a decision based solely on automated processing, including profiling, which produces legal effects concerning him or her or similarly significantly affects him or her.
2. Paragraph 1 shall not apply if the decision:
(a) is necessary for entering into, or performance of, a contract between the data subject and a data controller;
(b) is authorised by Union or Member State law to which the controller is subject and which also lays down suitable measures to safeguard the data subject's rights and freedoms and legitimate interests; or
(c) is based on the data subject's explicit consent.
3. In the cases referred to in points (a) and (c) of paragraph 2, the data controller shall implement suitable measures to safeguard the data subject's rights and freedoms and legitimate interests, at least the right to obtain human intervention on the part of the controller, to express his or her point of view and to contest the decision.

=== DATA PROTECTION BY DESIGN ===

Article 25 - Data protection by design and by default
1. Taking into account the state of the art, the cost of implementation and the nature, scope, context and purposes of processing as well as the risks of varying likelihood and severity for rights and freedoms of natural persons posed by the processing, the controller shall, both at the time of the determination of the means for processing and at the time of the processing itself, implement appropriate technical and organisational measures, such as pseudonymisation, which are designed to implement data-protection principles, such as data minimisation, in an effective manner.
2. The controller shall implement appropriate technical and organisational measures for ensuring that, by default, only personal data which are necessary for each specific purpose of the processing are processed.

=== DATA PROTECTION IMPACT ASSESSMENT ===

Article 35 - Data protection impact assessment
1. Where a type of processing in particular using new technologies, and taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing, is likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the controller shall, prior to the processing, carry out an assessment of the impact of the envisaged processing operations on the protection of personal data.
3. A data protection impact assessment shall in particular be required in the case of:
(a) a systematic and extensive evaluation of personal aspects relating to natural persons which is based on automated processing, including profiling, and on which decisions are based that produce legal effects;
(b) processing on a large scale of special categories of data referred to in Article 9(1), or of personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences;
(c) a systematic monitoring of a publicly accessible area on a large scale.
7. The assessment shall contain at least:
(a) a systematic description of the envisaged processing operations and the purposes of the processing;
(b) an assessment of the necessity and proportionality of the processing operations;
(c) an assessment of the risks to the rights and freedoms of data subjects;
(d) the measures envisaged to address the risks.
